They have asked me to talk about Indian
culture today
because Bombay is the place where Indian
culture is disappearing,
that’s what they say.
But I don’t think so, because the roots
are so deep
that we cannot give up that culture
so fast.
Now as it is for the people who are coming
from other countries,
they have to realize that this country had
no religion as such,
because there was not one book, they
didn’t follow one person.
They didn’t have any organizations as we
have for other religions,
we never had a hierarchy, priesthood,
all that appointed.
It was all done very spontaneously.
The whole thing worked out very
spontaneously.
But behind all that was, as I told you
before,
the attitude of Indians or our style was,
not to challenge or to question what these
great saints have talked about.
Because we accepted their status as saints,
as higher personalities in awareness,
in ascent they were higher than us.
So we didn’t want to challenge them,
and whatever they said we accepted.
As a result that became sort of, you can
call it,
a way of conduct or way of life.
But as a religion we had nothing,
except that later on the caste system
developed.
Before that there was no caste system
because non-Brahmins wrote
about Shri Rama or wrote about
Shri Krishna.
It’s very surprising how we accepted
all that,
never challenged whether it was written
by a Brahmin or not.
Brahmin was that who knew about Brahma
principle,
the principle of all-pervading Divine Love.
Everybody was not a Brahmin.
But later on they made it like this,
whosoever is born
in a Brahmin family was a Brahmin,
whosoever was born in another caste
belonged to that.
But because of the father’s heritance,
you can say inherited,
they also the profession that they wer
following.
So according to the professions,
the religions, or we can say the castes
were established; no religion, but caste.
And that is how we had different, different
caste systems in India
according to the professions. It is very
interesting.
Recently, I discovered there is a caste
called Ghadani,
among Marathas, which you may not be
knowing.
They only believe in the art.
They do music, or they have paintings,
they make statues,
they make temples; that’s a caste,
that’s a profession.
And they marry among themselves because
it is easier
to marry in the same profession and to have
the same ideas
and styles about life and the profession
especially.
Now later on, apart from being
a profession,
it started becoming a very consolidated
nonsense.
And then they used, I mean I think, it is
the British who used it very much
to separate us from one to another.
Now the schedule caste and all that was
not also like a rigid thing.
We have got saints like Chokha Mela and
all that,
who were also greatly respected and
regarded.
Also Ekanath, Namdev, they all tried to be
one
with all the castes, and especially
the schedule caste.
So this saintliness was regarded as
a another caste you can say,
which did not believe in any caste
whatsoever.
They had no caste, they were a caste-less
people
without any religion, without any caste.
So the ultimate aim of every caste was
to get to Self Realization.
So they enter into the clan, you can call
it, into the system of saints.
And all the saints, whether Muslims, or
Hindus or Jains or anything,
they all were put together as saints,
as you can say they were Sufis.
Sufis from the Muslim heritage they came.
Then we had also among Jains, Tirthankaras
and all that.
The main point was that they were the people
who believed in the ethical life, ethics;
believed in the higher life, spiritual life
and lived like that.
Now as you are all Sahaja Yogis, you have
lost your religion,
lost your caste, you have lost everything.
You are Sahaja Yogis.
Yogis, means you are the people who are
believing into the ethical side of life.
In this country all this was used and was
exploited also,
for politics, for all kinds of segregation
of people.
And that has really gone into such rigid
ideas about every one, every caste,
that first thing they used to ask, not now,
before, ‘What is your caste?’
Now that’s over, they don’t ask, at least
thank God,
that much sense is there, that they don’t
ask for the caste,
but they used to ask religion and caste
formerly
when we were entering into any examination
or any kind of competition.
Now gradually it’s vanishing, but the
politicians wants to use caste
as a method of working out the opposition
and the majority part of it.
This democracy I don’t think is very
helpful to us
because in democracy anybody can start
an organization,
can say that, “We belong to this caste
and that caste.”
And when the constitution was made also
in this country, it’s very surprising,
Ambedkar was one of them who wanted
that there should be a privilege for
the schedule caste for forty years.
My father was there. He said, ‘No,
you can have only two types, ones who
have and those who don’t have.’
And that kind of thing if you have: those
who have and don’t have,
it would make such a difference.
Then in other countries they have
the same type,
so that the needs of the people who
haven’t got the minimum necessities
for a good life will be helped instead
of creating a caste.
Now there’s one fellow called Mandal who
created a great problem in our country.
He as a student had a car of his own, used
to live very lavishly,
and he was fighting for some people who
were supposed to be downtrodden.
And so many bad things have been done
because of his report that he gave.
Now if he had made that kind of a proper,
sensible, ethical division in this country,
things would have been much better.
But now because of this problem of creating
artificial caste,
this country is suffering a lot.
And the caste of the gurus, the caste,
we can say, of the Sufis,
or the caste of the saints is very much
polluted,
and we had many people in our country who
started becoming gurus and this and that.
But the main thing is the ethics, which was
the culture of this country,
was the ethics - Aadhyatama.
Without that they thought human beings
were worse than animals.
Ethics was very important to every caste,
to every person.
Even when I was young we had the same
thing.
But now it has become such a mixture
and such a problem,
that unless and until Sahaja Yoga really
spreads in a real way,
I don’t think we can improve the condition
of this country.
Now the essence of it is that once your
attention is only
towards ethics and Aadhyatama (MEANS
spirituality -ed),
then you start discovering all the inner
deeper meanings of your life.
You work it out in a different way.
In a very different way you work it out.
If it is material gain, then one can become
like America.
If it is some sort of a very low level
hankerings,
then also you cannot be an Indian.
The principles of Indian life were embedded
in spirituality, in morality.
An immoral person was regarded as a very
low level person.
Such a person could not get married, he had
no place in the society,
he had no place even in the homes, their
own homes.
That such a restriction on people, just
to see that the society is kept clean,
and such a person was thrown out
of the society.
Anybody who even drank wine or anything,
was regarded as a person who is not
dharmic, he is adharmic.
Can you believe it?
Drinking was regarded as adharmic.
I think very few people
must have seen drunkards, only
on the streets.
When I went to Russia they asked Me,
“What do you say to ‘cheers’?”
The Russians say ‘cheerio’, they don’t
say ‘cheers’.
I said, “What? Cheers for what?”
“For drinking. When you are on the table,
what do you say?”
I said, “We never drink on the dinner
table,
that’s not done in India. At least, I don’t
know if somebody does it.
But it is a very, very western style
of life
that openly you sit down at the dinner
table before your children
and start drinking, and say ‘cheers’.
Immagine.
Cheers for what? For becoming unconscious?
For becoming stupid? For getting into
troubles?
But it became like a practice there.
Whether somebody dies in the family, they
will drink. Can you imagine?
If somebody is born in the family they
will drink.
So this culture, the whole culture was
so bad,
even among the worst in this country
they wouldn’t do that.
Secretly some people used to drink, and
they would go on the street.
Then the Islamic influence came.
And surprisingly when it is prohibited,
absolutely prohibited,
in the Islam, to drink, they all started
drinking
as a reaction, but only those Nawabs
and all that.
And because of them, because they were
in authority,
others also took to drinking.
But still, it is not yet a custom to drink,
to celebrate something.
I mean supposing, even in the church
they give drinks
and they make also some sort
of a Benedictine,
in the church organization. Imagine!
This is such a perversion of religion.
In India also, in the temples and all that
they started all kinds of nonsensical
things, no doubt.
But Indian philosophy is such that it gives
you complete freedom
and you can do what you like. But not
in the name of religion,
you can’t do it, not in the name of God,
not in the temple.
And if they do it, people will throw them
away,
they bring a court case, do this do that
and, I mean, just remove it completely.
So it is kept pure.
We had a horrible incidence of horrible
things people were doing, adharmic,
but all that had to be cancelled
completely. Why?
Because the people wouldn’t have it, people
wouldn’t like it.
I was told that at Ganapatipule they are
secretly offering
some sort of a beer to people.
But if the government comes to know
about it, it will be banned.
I mean, whatever is pure must be kept pure.
Christ, also, He took one hunter in his
hand
and started hitting people who were selling
things in the temple.
So the purity of that church or the purity
of that religious place have to be kept.
So the first thing I think was purity.
Here now I have seen, the other day,
there was a boy, was for marriage.
And it’s very surprising, they were all
very well off,
very rich, everything was there.
But they found out that he had
a girlfriend before.
And the brother of the girlfriend tried
to stab him. Finished.
Now for him to get married is an
impossibility in this country.
He might get somebody from abroad, I don’t
know what they will do.
But if he had a girlfriend like that,
openly, he is finished.
So the restrictions came from the society,
a society which was built up on ethics.
And all these ethical values arepenetrating
up to the lowest level, up to everywhere.
But unfortunately, unfortunately
now the other cultures are coming and
people think
it's, it's - we are rather rigid, very
rigid people.
We should really relax a little bit and
take to other things.
But I have to tell you
that if you go out of the line of ethics,
in any direction,
the only saving is Sahaja Yoga to come back
to normalcy,
there is no other way out.
And once you come to Sahaja Yoga you cannot
deviate from the path of dharma.
If you try to do that you go out of Sahaja
Yoga.
It is as simple as that.
It is not that, ‘All right, doesn’t matter.
Mother should forgive.’ and these things.
I forgive, all right, I forgive,
because you have got some still human
weaknesses left in you, I forgive.
But in Sahaja Yoga you cannot come.
Sahaja Yoga has to maintain its purity.
If you allow all such people to enter
into Sahaja Yoga,
then there will be no purity of Sahaja Yoga
and then everybody will start doing this
or that
just to say that, ‘After all, you see, we
are also Sahaja Yogis,
they are also Sahaja Yogis, if they have
done it, why not we?’
What is very surprising to Me is
the western people
who have taken to Sahaja Yoga are
scrupulously following Sahaja Yoga.
Scrupulously. I am not such a strict Guru,
as you know.
But they understand one thing, that “this
is for our betterment,
this is for our growth,
this is a very, very important part of our
lives, that is ethics.
That has to be there.”
And once they understand it, I tell you,
I am surprised
how these western people who have seen
their parents drinking,
and also other people doing all kinds
of things,
even their friends and all that, just
give up, completely.
I am very proud of them.
For us Indians, it is natural, because we
are brought up that way.
All the time we have seen people being
corrected and,
I mean of course drinking and all that
was of course not out of question.
But even if somebody looks at a girl,
you know,
the father would say, ‘I will pierce
through your eyes!’
I mean. And that’s why the eyes remain
steady,
and I don’t know how but we don’t do
all that. Normally.
I mean if somebody has been abroad
and all that
and thinks that they are very free people
and why not we can do,
that’s a very different thing. But normally
we don’t, we don’t believe in that.
Of course in India we do have some elite
societies, so called;
they are the people who believe in all
kinds of elite behavior.
I don’t know what is that supposed to be.
Maybe some of them have started some
nonsense, especially in Bombay.
Now it is spreading out also to Poona.
And in Poona there are girls who are
behaving funnily.
I mean I can’t believe it. They drink,
they smoke,
they have become call-girls. Can you
imagine?
All this has happened
because I don’t know what is their idea
about life.
Or maybe it’s an actress or something they
follow,
but what is the life of that actress?
Unethical behavior, when you compromise
with your value system,
ultimately, where do you end?
It’s showing results. We have AIDS, we have
so many diseases
coming from this kind of irrelevant,
unethical life.
It is happening everywhere to suggest that
we should take to very normal life,
to very good family life of obedience and
understanding.
But because you are very free in the West
it is difficult for you to accept,
but once they come to Sahaja Yoga I am
really surprised, I am really surprised,
how they have accepted Sahaja Yoga
so beautifully.
They had the freedom, complete freedom
to do what they liked.
In India we don’t have such freedom
for children.
They can go wherever they like, they
can do whatever they like,
the teacher cannot correct them.
Because of that freedom that they had,
there’s one thing good that has happened.
So many are lost, all right,
but those who are saved are rare people.
Because of that growth of freedom within
them I think
they learn our Indian music in five months,
four months. No Indians can do it
because they are restricted all the time,
they are controlled all the time,
they are kept on the path of religion.
So ultimately the freedom that some of you
had and enjoyed
has given you a special personality
that you pick up very difficult things
without any difficulty.
Now whether you should have that freedom
or not is your own lookout.
But too much restrictions on children,
I think, is not a good thing.
Now in music, I know, Ravi Shankar when
he was young,
his guru had broken a tanpura on his head
because he put a wrong note, swara. Can you
imagine?
They used to beat them, tie them upside
down,
put them in the well, I mean all kinds
of things they did
and the disciples listened to all that
discipline. Can you imagine?
But I think that curbed their capacity
to absorb something difficult.
This is one of the reasons why I see this
has happened,
that people have picked up this difficult
music
in four months, three months, it’s
a miracle we think.
Why not this happens with Indians?
You put them to anything, they pick it up
so fast.
With Sahaja Yoga, born with Sahaja Yoga,
those who are,
should be given full freedom I think.
Such children should be given full freedom
for they will not do anything wrong.
And you will see they will pick up things
very fast.
Not that westerners are more intelligent
or alert,
but the way they are given freedom, their
growth, their personality.
Sometimes they are like a vagabond,
I think.
Sometimes just like a tomboy, sometimes
to me they look like very vulgar.
But once with that wealth of freedom they
come to reality, they shine.
So I would request also Indians, not
to suppress the children too much.
We enjoy the children very much in India,
no doubt,
but we suppress also them, very much.
‘Why are you standing? Why don’t you sit
down? Why...’
And children don’t mind because it is
accepted,
this pattern is accepted in India.
So too much restriction on children also
curbs their personality,
this is what I have discovered.
But the western people go through such hell
first of all,
develop such problems to begin with
and ultimately what happens is this,
that they can be discarded as bad, bad,
bad people.
But if they come as good, good, good, they
are marvelous.
All the freedom they have enjoyed before
is showing results,
otherwise how can this miracle happen
to western people.
There is no justification. Now the problem
is to give freedom or not.
We have a proper sense now, after
Realization,
that a child is a born realized.
In the beginning he won’t understand,
he won’t understand.
But gradually such a child will show
results,
maximum capacity to absorb and to express.
So today I am telling you about this
freedom,
which is the freedom of the Spirit.
We should have understanding of such
children
who have that spirituality in them.
They have dharma in them.
And we should not try to constrict them
or to trouble them.
Let them do what they like.
They’ll never do anything wrong because
they are born realized.
So I am talking about the future Indians.
Some of them I have seen, eight year old
children,
six year old children, they are geniuses,
I tell you.
They sing as if we feel that these old
musicians are reborn or what.
It is very surprising how they show their
talent.
There was a programme I saw on the
television of children below eight years
and a three year old girl singing just like
Hirabai Barodekar.
I was amazed. They are born realized
but also they have the talents from their
past lives.
They have got it from the past life.
So we should not try to control and check
our children too much,
that’s a part of our Sahaj culture.
It doesn’t fit into Indian culture, I must
say,
but it should fit into Sahaj culture,
to understand the value of our children
who are realized souls.
I enjoy their company, they speak so
sweetly of all the things,
of all the persons, and they describe about
everyone so sweetly.
Just allow them the freedom to talk
and they’ll tell you all kinds of things.
Now I have praised you a lot I think.
The outsiders we can call them, not
Indians, non-Indians.
And it is a fact, the way they have taken
to Sahaja Yoga is remarkable.
But the way they are taking to this Indian
music and to Indian art
I can’t believe it, really I can’t believe
it. I can’t understand it.
So you have freedom,
but now use this freedom for expression
of whatever you have achieved in Sahaja
Yoga.
Because you are already grown up with
your freedom
and if you do not utilize that personality
full of freedom
in expressing Sahaja Yoga in your own
languages,
you won’t help your people.
You have to help them because your
percentage is very low,
your quality is high.
But in your own country your percentage
is low.
So you have to go all out to get them
into Sahaja Yoga
You are duty bound, I think.